Project focus
=============

The focus of this project will be on the operational planning resolution of the electricity system in Europe. This is due to the potential of renewable energy and electrification using renewable energy in decarbonising the energy and transport industries, as well as to better analyse and include short-term fluctuations of renewable energy generation in energy models. :term:`VRE`\  resources are also mainly used to generate electricity directly, i.e., wind and solar are converted into electrical energy from kinetic and light or heat energy respectively. This also provides the opportunity to utilise high resolution electricity system data and machine learning methods for forecasting and optimisation of the electricity system. The ultimate aim of this short-term decision making model is to help participants in short-term electricity (i.e., day-ahead) markets to develop operational and bidding strategies to maximise their revenue under uncertainty of :term:`VRE`\  generation. Inputs used by the machine learning model for the day-ahead forecasts include, but are not limited to, recent historical measurements of electricity generation, demand, and market prices.

There is a need for open-source energy systems models, as most widely-used models are coded in :term:`GAMS`\, which has a proprietary license. According to the Open Energy Modelling Initiative (:term:`openmod`\) [openmod]_, an active community advocating the use of open energy modelling in Europe, developing an energy system model is a lengthy process. With new technologies and intermittent renewables replacing conventional energy sources, these models play an important role in simulating such systems and developing new models would be a challenge. Being open-source allows for scientific collaboration, which makes this process more efficient, as there would be overlapping areas in the research and development of energy systems models. Although open-source models generate less rewards due to, for example, not being patented [Tesoriere2017]_, the models would be subject to full scientific scrutiny, which results in the output being of higher quality in the long run and makes the model accessible to the wider scientific community. Therefore, this model will be fully open source, well-documented, and utilise open data to ensure full transparency and reproducibility.

For now, this project will be restricted to the German electricity system. High resolution open data for Germany is available through the German meteorological service, i.e., Deutscher Wetterdienst (:term:`DWD`\) and the :term:`ENTSO-E`\  Transparency Platform (:term:`ENTSO-E TP`\). Additionally, based on the :term:`EU`\  reference scenario 2016, Germany is expected to consistently be the :term:`EU`\  member state with the highest :term:`VRE`\  share in generating electricity in the :term:`EU`\, contributing almost 27 % in 2015 and 20 % in 2050. This makes Germany a good case study for analysing :term:`VRE`\  generation. The analysis will focus on the year 2019 due to the complete availability of data on both platforms.
